---
title: redis pub/sub with websockets - part II
description: Blog entry for the BeachBot.
date: 2021-02-12
tags:
  - V3
  - Programming
layout: layouts/post.njk
---
Date: 2021-02-12
Author: Andrew

Some progress today but a camera problem put a screeching halt to the development. 

First was understanding why the pubsub arrangement appeared to be initialized correctly but the messages weren't appearing. Looking through the example I suddenly realised. The code that the service was triggering was using <code>r.mset({"ram_free" : get_ram()})</code> (get_ram() being a custom function I wrote). When instead it should be <code>r.publish("ram_free", get_ram())</code>.

As soon as I changed the code to have a publish instead of mset the messages started appearing in the listener script output!

Next step is to integrate the pubsub arrangement with the server so that on launch it triggers a new thread to establish the pubsub arrangement and monitor redis for changes. When there are then it pushes it to the websocket, which will update the UI.

Started making the changes and the first time I ran the script to test how things were going I got a camera error. Opened a terminal session and tried to use the most basic of camera commands.
<code>
pi@br-v3:~ $ raspistill -t 0</br>
mmal: mmal_vc_component_enable: failed to enable component: ENOSPC</br>
mmal: camera component couldn't be enabled</br>
mmal: main: Failed to create camera component</br>
mmal: Failed to run camera app. Please check for firmware updates</br>
</code>

So off on a bug hunt. These are the kind of bugs I hate (those and package version problems) where the  underlying problem is unclear and in places where I can't easily get to them and have little or no understanding of how they really work.

So I:
<UL>
<LI>checked that the camera is detected and all good.</LI>
<LI>disabled camera, reboot, enable camera, reboot.</LI>
<LI>swapped camera to another that I know works.</LI>
</UL>

Still no progress :(

When I run the server script in Thonny I am also getting also getting a "socket is in use" error when the camera code bombs. I've asked Rohan what could cause this. Is it possible that somehow a previous video stream connection isn't closed and is causing the camera to lock the new session out? Awaiting response...

