---
title: Cat v Dog classifer and thoughts on the litter classifer.
description: Blog entry for the BeachBot.
date: 2021-01-05
tags:
  - V2
  - Programming
  - ML/AI
layout: layouts/post.njk
---
Date: 2021-01-05
Author: Andrew

Trained the first cat v dog recogniser. 1 block VGG. First epoch of the 50 epochs took ages for some reason. As this was the first time running Keras/Tensorflow on this machine that might have had something to do with it. After the first epoch they took about a minute. Hmmm... was expecting faster. 16GB in RAM on motherboard and 8GB of VRAM on graphics card is going to work for a while but may need to offload to a S3/EC2 instance in future.

<UL>
<LI>1 VGG - 72.949 accuracy on test set</LI>
<LI>2 VGG - 75.393 accuracy on test set</LI>
<LI>3 VGG - 79.545 accuracy on test set</LI>
<LI>3 VGG + Dropout - 81.548 accuracy on test set</LI>
<LI>3 VGG + Dropout + augment - 79.883 accuracy on test set</LI>
<LI>3 VGG + Dropout + augment (100 epochs) - 83.something accuracy on test set</LI>
</UL>

Not world-beating standard but for very little investment a pretty good outcome. Now the questions is if I can achieve similar results with the litter data I've assembled to date. I can see I might face a couple of problems. Firstly, I don't have a huge amount of images having only a few hundred classified so far. Secondly, the litter does vary quite a lot in shape and colour so it will take longer for the classifer to start identifying litter consistently. The frame size is 1280x720 - but I'll need to resize them down to something like 224x224 as that <I>seems</I> to be a common size used. And the focus on some of the pictures is not too good so I image that will also cause problems.

Before going to bed checked that all services on the BeachBot were enabled and found that I had disabled the camera service. Fixed that up and 100% battery so all good for tomorrow's field test.